Quality assurance or keyway is an important aspect of the work of a data scientist and we'll be talking
quite a bit about it throughout the course.
Q8 is especially important in the e-tail phase.
Imagine that an error occurs in your e-tail and you don't pick it up the rest of your work that you
do.
Often the tail is pointless because the underlying data is flawed.
Today I'll show you some quick checks that you can do after you have uploaded your raw data.
The first thing you should do is check the number of rows.
Here's a handy trick on how to do it quickly after you have selected the top 1000 rows of your table
.
Highlight everything between select and from.
Now delete this code.
Replace it with simply count left bracket star right bracket.
No click this read Exit could button up at the top as you can see as kill displays a number of rows
in your table in the results window over here.
There are 20 rows in this table and this is correct because we have 20 rows in the original data file
.
It is important to compare to the original data file and not the prepared or uploaded data you want
to make sure that the number of rows has not changed and you throw out your e-tail.
Of course if you had deliberately deleted some rows in the preparation stage then the situation is different
.
In that case you need to compare this number to the number of rows in the file in the prepared folder
Another thing you can do is scroll through your data and make sure that no rows have been skewed.
This process is similar to the check we did in Sosias simply look at the most right column and scroll
down throughout your file.
Also you should check that the dates have been uploaded correctly in the year month day format.
The same goes for any dullish Ballis.
Make sure that there are no dollar signs or commas and that there are only two digits after the decimal
.
These are very trivial checks but they can help you catch errors that could have occurred during this
phase of the jail and save you lots of time down the track